Although our aspirations for Safari were higher, the system as currently implemented is extremely
basic. Each server stores a copy of the ZooKeeper tree-of-znodes data structure. Clients modify
state by sending a modification requests to all servers. Clients read state by requesting it from
all servers, and returning the data to the client application once a majority of servers have
returned the same value. All communication is done using UDP based message passing. That is, there
is no connection state. Messages are currently restricted to fit in a single UDP packet, so znode
data must be no greater than than $\approx 60kB$. We have not implemented watches or sequential
znodes, but these would be easy to add the the existing system.

Although we believe the system offers linearizable state changes, it is currently useless in
practice. The system can quickly become unavailable when multiple clients make state modifications
concurrently, especially when latencies are large. Although the system remained available during our
local experiment, it frequently halted during our real-world deployment experiments. As a result,
\textbf{Safari's latencies in these experiments should be interpreted as a lower bound on any
ZooKeeper-like system.} Still, we believe that the reported read latencies are achievable because in
most cases (ie, the network is not partitioned and servers have not failed) reads could behave
exactly as they do in the current implementation even with changes to make the system more
available.

We had hoped to implement a leaderless consensus algorithm like AllConcur [10] to keep the system
available and automatically resolve conflicts while preserving low latency. This would also decrease
read latency because clients could deliever results to applications after receiving just one
successful response, rather than waiting for a majority. However, we have not completed this
implementation in yet.

We defer most discussion of implementation details to a video describing the system [8] and the
source code [9]. Additional message passing would be required to resolve these conflicts when they
are detected, so the system's latency provides a loose lower bound on what could be expected from a
ZooKeeper implementation with the same consistency.
